---
layout: post  
title: "On Board Water Softener"  
...

I've found water at many places to be hard. Hard water is water with
dissolved minerals. It can stain plumbing fixtures, add a foul taste,
and make cleaning and laundry more difficult.

Water softeners are devices designed to remove most of the dissolved
minerals in water. The *softened* water has fewer dissolved minerals and
is more amenable to domestic use. There are several brands of portable
water softeners suitable for use in an RV. For my rig, I used a product
from, "On the Go".

![softener](http://i.imgur.com/FwE7W0T.jpg)

It consists of a fiberglass tank that holds a *resin*. The hard water
flows throught the resin and where dissolved minerals are removed. This
is typical of most brands of water softeners.

These softeners can be hooked up to an outside water source using the
supplied hose. I decided to install my softener *on-board* as a matter
of convenience. It's one less item to have to dig out of storage and
setup and I don't risk forgetting it or having it stolen.

Of course, you'll need to find a place to install it. I was fortunate to
find a place in my wet bay where I could stand up the cylinder upright
(they don't work lying sideways). I had to remove the black base and
make a small plywood receiver that holds the bottom of the tank in
place.

I also bought an extra length of water hose, a standard male water
fitting and hardware to splice into to existing line. This will be
different depending on your configuration. To secure the tank, I used a
heavy-duty rubber shock cord.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WRNiYQOWTgA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

As you can see from the video it was a tight fit but I still have access
to the water pump switch and intake selector.

When it comes time to recycle the softener, I undo the rubber shock
cord, disconnect the water hoses and remove the tank to an outside water
spigot where it can be back-flushed using a small box of table salt.
