---
layout: post  
title: Grand Rapids RV Show 2017
...

We went to the Grand Rapids RV show in (surprise) Grand Rapids,
Michigan. We looked at 5 or 6 different Newmar Coaches when we ordered
our Ventana back in November, but until today, we never actually saw our
particular model (3412). The 3412 floor-model is not as popular as the
longer 40+ foot models. We decided to order it sight unseen so to speak.
It's not as risky as it sounds given the number of images and
walk-throughs available. Still, it was nice to finally sit in "our"
coach. It was all we hoped it would be.

Our family attended two seminars given by Cori and Greg Young of [The
Restless Youngs](http://therestlessyoungs.com). The Youngs have been
full-timing for about 3 years and shared a variety of tips on RV'ing,
locating campgrounds, trip planning and "What to expect" when you're on
the road. Jean and I were pleasantly surprised at how much we learned.
Other than seeing our coach floor model in person, it was the highlight
of the show. Definitely take the opportunity should you ever have the
chance to attend their seminars.

![youngs](http://i.imgur.com/BUgV1QH.jpg "Cori and Greg Young")

*Cori and Greg Young*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And in an amazing display of self-restraint, I managed not to buy any
gadgets for our once and future motorhome. I did see two gadgets (Jean's
term, not mine) worth mentioning.

**Telesteps 10ES OSHA Compliant 10 ft Reach Professional Wide Step
Telescoping A-frame Ladder**

![ladder](http://i.imgur.com/qxh1SDb.jpg)

[amazon.com](https://www.amazon.com/Telesteps-10ES-Compliant-Professional-Telescoping/dp/B00BF0HYB2/ref=sr_1_10?ie=UTF8&qid=1484510359&sr=8-10&keywords=rv+telescoping+ladder)

**Coffeeboxx, Single-cup Brewing System**

![coffeemaker](http://i.imgur.com/AGOM3AD.png)

<https://oxx.com/thecoffeeboxx/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And of course, no trip to Grand Rapids is complete without a visit to
[Founders Brewing Company](https://foundersbrewing.com/). Good eats,
great beer.

![Rachel, Peter, Jean and Mike as Founders Brewing](http://i.imgur.com/BCTxigY.jpg)
