---
layout: post  
title:  'Mammoth Cave, KY'
published: false
...

Recently, we visited [Mammoth
Cave](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Mammoth_Cave_National_Park) in
Kentucky, the longest cave system in the world. It's also a [World
Heritige site](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/World_Heritage_site) and a
[Bio
Reserve](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Man_and_the_Biosphere_Programme#/Biosphere_reserves).
It's a special place and well worth a visit.

![mammoth-cave-visitor-center](https://i.imgur.com/xMdxzT8.jpg)

Unusual for a National Park, [there is no entrance
fee](https://www.nps.gov/maca/planyourvisit/basicinfo.htm). This was
part of an agreement to when the government purchased the lands
encompassing the cave system. There are charges for the cave tours.

There are 17 different cave tours offered by the park service ranging
from easy to very difficult although even the easy ones require a fair
bit of walking. We did two of the tours; The *Historic Tour* and *Domes
and Dripstones*. These are perhaps the two most popular tours. Both are
tours last about 2 hours.

There are a number of ranger talks conducted through out the day and
evenings. These talks are free and informative.

Mammoth Cave is mostly a dry cave. They are gray and dull, not colorful
like [Blanchard Caves](http://www.blanchardsprings.org/) or [Carlsbad
Caverns](https://www.nps.gov/cave/index.htm). However, there is some
wonderful history and artifacts as related by the park rangers. Some
really neat graffiti from the 1800's using candle stippling is show
below. If you're a history nut like me, you'll find much to enjoy.

![cavewriting](https://i.imgur.com/jz66aJu.jpg)

Outside of the caves, there's not much to do in the area. This can be a
plus or a minus depending on your point of view. As national parks go,
Mammoth Cave is not crowded. You can move around the park in relative
ease without feeling like the entire world is visiting the same spot at
the same time. The one BBQ restaurant we went to was down right awful
(The BBQ Pit) although two others in the area looked promising.

![thebbqpit](https://i.imgur.com/IqwrmC1.jpg)

Camping is plentiful and relatively cheap compared to other National
Park areas we've visited. We stayed at [Singing Hills RV Park and
Campground](http://www.singinghillsrvpark.com/). It's quiet, family
friendly and inexpensive. We stayed 4 nights and with our Passport
America discount it was about $20 a night with full hookups (including
50 amp). The proprietor is friendly and has a nice welcome packet
including information about local medical facilities and emergency phone
numbers for fire and police. A nice touch.

Wifi was actually quite good as campgrounds go. I could stream YouTube
videos at low quality most times of the day including evenings. There is
also a propane refill service on site.

Corvette Museum here...

![corvette](https://i.imgur.com/WEIJPGw.jpg)

Whiskey

![whiskey](https://i.imgur.com/8G9ByXu.jpg)

Ice Cream

![icecream](https://i.imgur.com/COuLKhc.jpg)

Comments about clean RV...

Traffic and getting there...

GPS and route planning...

Wig Wams...

![wigwams](https://i.imgur.com/ROVvBja.jpg)
